Brief Thoughts on the 2020 US Presidential Election
===================================================
I'm about to send in my mail-in ballot, which will mark the first time I've
voted in a Presidential election since voting for Ron Paul in 2008. Here were
my choices:

**For President**: Jo Jorgensen, the Libertarian candidate. This was largely
symbolic since I live in MA, but she promises to end qualified immunity,
federal civil asset forfeiture, the War on Drugs and to pardon all non-violent
drug offenders. That would do more to remove institutional prejudices than
anything Biden or Harris will ever do.

**Question 1**: Yes to "right to repair." While I would prefer less regulation,
so long as government is in the business of intellectual property, I feel
it should be egalitarian. As a programmer, I can say that the TV ads against
this question about how your car will get hacked are very misleading. So long
as there is a computer on board, whether it's using proprietary or standard
protocols, there is a chance of getting hacked. Using standard protocols is
arguably safer anyway, since more people will be involved in designing and
scrutinizing them.

**Question 2**: Yes to "ranked choice voting." While I think we can do better
than ranked choice voting, I do think it's strictly better than our current
first-past-the-post system. If anything, it might shake things up a bit and
give us a little more ideological diversity.

I don't normally vote because I'm not a huge fan of the tyranny that democracy
inspires. And I think the best way to combat that is non-violently by
withdrawing the consent of the governed. Thus, I usually choose not to vote.

But Trump changed that for me. Trump is similar to most other politicians in
that he pays lip service, lies, cheats, consistently ignores the Constitution
and engages in dishonest political theatre. Granted, Trump takes most of those
things to stunningly new levels, particularly in his handling of the pandemic.

Where Trump differs for me is that he is openly encouraging civil conflict
while simultaneously stating---repeatedly!---that he won't accept the results
of an election. The former is basically the number 1 thing that civilization
wants to avoid. The latter is the mark of a true authoritarian. As much as I
dislike democracy, I'll take it any day over the kind of authoritarianism being
promoted by Trump.

The worst part is that Trump is basing his intent to reject the election
results on completely false claims about voter fraud. If you don't mind
spending 30 minutes learning about mail-in ballots and whether they are
subject to voter fraud, then please watch this good overview of it:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3kmXpMhZqOg

To me, I'm forced to conclude that either Trump is dumb enough to really
believe that mail-in ballots pose enough of a risk for fraud that it's worth
calling the election into question, or Trump is trying to retain his power
regardless of what the election says. Either way, I think it's important that
he is voted out of office.

I usually don't play the "lesser of two evils" game, instead choosing to
opt-out as a choice that most often don't recognize or even deride as
irresponsible. But in this case, I'm making an exception. In most Presidential
elections, the candidates are largely the same on issues I care most about.
Trump however is threatening to turn democracy into something much worse, to
the extent that I'd much rather return to the "status quo" problems with Biden.
We'll at least have someone that won't intentionally become an authoritarian or
encourage civil conflict.

I realize "don't vote for Foo they will end America" is a pretty common
exaggeration to hear. I'm trying not to do that. In this case, I'm not just
making something up. I'm literally going by the President's own words. He's
repeatedly explicitly encouraged conflict and repeatedly refused to say that
he'll accept the results the election.
